Amid reports of coronavirus patients administered plasma therapy showing ‘encouraging’ results and states urging recovered patients to donate their plasma, the Centre on Tuesday said that the therapy was ‘only being experimented,’.
The treatment, known as convalescent plasma therapy, requires plasma provided by donors who have recently recovered from a COVID-19 infection. These donors will have antibodies to help fight COVID-19.
The government warned convalescent plasma therapy should not be used as a treatment against COVID-19 since there is no proof yet that it works and without following due procedure, it could lead to life-threatening complications.
lasma therapy is just an experiment to treat COVID-19 patients and its improper implementation can cause life-threatening complications, the ministry of health and family welfare and Indian Council of Medical Research clarified on Tuesday.
In a first for India, a COVID-19 patient in Delhi who was treated with convalescent plasma therapy has completely recovered, India Today reported on Sunday, 26 April.
As the debate rages about the viability of convalescent plasma, extracted from those who had COVID-19, a paper published in the Journal of American Medical Association has hit a home run for a possible treatment methodology.
We have already got approval for Convalescent Plasma Therapy. There was no reason to get frightened about it as the infection can be cured, he said.
Known as convalescent plasma therapy, it has recently been given the green light by medical regulators in the UK and US to trial on critically ill patients.
 'Currently Just an Experiment': Centre Says no Evidence to Show Plasma Therapy Can Cure COVID-19 ... Indian Doctors And Experts Abroad Turn to Convalescent Plasma Therapy That Treated SARS ...
The treatment, known as convalescent plasma therapy, requires ... These donors will have antibodies to help fight COVID-19. ... “While this treatment is not a cure, it might help alleviate ...
New Delhi: The government on Tuesday warned convalescent plasma therapy should not be used as a treatment against COVID-19 since ...
Plasma therapy is just an experiment to treat COVID-19 patients and its ... "COVID19 convalescent plasma therapy comes with its own share of ...
In a first for India, a Covid-19 patient in Delhi who was treated with convalescent plasma therapy has recovered.
Preliminary results show promise in treating critically ill patients. ... As the debate rages about the viability of convalescent plasma (plasma extracted ... from patients who have recovered from COVID 19 treatment can work.
"We have already got approval for Convalescent Plasma Therapy. ... was no reason to get frightened about it as the infection can be cured, ...
They were given a dose of plasma donated from COVID-19 survivors, which had the ... Known as convalescent plasma therapy, it has recently been given the ... 
As the world turns to opening their economies after the great coronavirus shutdown, several strategies are being explored to prevent a ‘second wave’ outbreak, beyond contact-tracking apps.
KHON KAEN– A disinfection tunnel has been set up at a technical college in the northeastern province of KhonKaen to disinfect people with ultraviolet (UV) in an attempt to fight coronavirus.
For those elderly citizens who do not have access to a retirement community or a 24x7 staff, there are other ways you can lean on your community to help you through this lockdown.
The research that’s been done has shown this exposure can be dangerous for people’s health.
It’s easy to laugh, as many have, about President Donald Trump’s musing about killing the virus that causes Covid-19 by ingesting disinfectant or somehow shining UV light inside the human body.
In true timely fashion, Digital Aerolus, a global leader in autonomous technology for any vehicle that flies, drives, dives, or swims, has developed the first indoor drone with C-band ultraviolet (UVC) lights.
The World Health Organization says UV lamps should not be used to sterilize hands or other areas of skin as UV radiation can cause skin irritation.
Supplies of personal protective equipment remain scarce across the United States, especially the N95 respirator masks that health care workers use to protect themselves from the new coronavirus.
A bus is being disinfected by ultraviolet light on March 4, 2020 in Shanghai, China. ... to humans and can result in cancer or cataracts in the eyes if there is over ...
UV disinfection tunnel set up to fight Coronavirus (COVID-19) in KhonKaen – Thailand ... But certain level of UV exposure was harmful to human's skin, therefore,
iStock For those elderly citizens who do not have access to a retirement ... “This reduces the burden on the limited medical staff available and prevents their exposure to ...
The research that's been done has shown this exposure can be dangerous ... “The dangers of unprotected exposure to UV [ultraviolet] radiation from the sun ... and physical distancing guidelines to protect against COVID-19.
Here's What Disinfectants and UV Light Really Do to Your Body ... causes Covid-19 by ingesting disinfectant or somehow shining UV light inside ... How Long Does the Coronavirus Live on Surfaces?
World's First Indoor Disinfection Drone Ready to Fight COVID-19 ... has developed the first indoor drone with C-band ultraviolet (UVC) lights, created ... Can you talk more about the exposure time ...
Can ultraviolet disinfection lamps kill COVID-19? ... But, it's done with robots or without human exposure. ... Health Organization nor the Centers for Disease Control list sunlight as a method for preventing the coronavirus.
 ... a long-known, if little-used, means of disinfection -- ultraviolet radiation. ... care workers use to protect themselves from the new coronavirus.
 Coronavirus can be passed between people in the kind of warm and humid conditions found in swimming pools and saunas, a new study finds.
This myth has been stemming from the false idea that cold and hot temperatures can kill the virus. 
Coronavirus CAN spread in warm and humid conditions as scientists find a 'superspreader' in China passed the virus to EIGHT people in a swimming baths where temperatures reach 106°F
While other coronaviruses show winter seasonality, there is evidence that Covid-19 has decreased survival in high humidity and warmer temperatures, there is plenty of evidence, that transmission may be higer.
Can coronavirus (Covid-19) spread, or be controlled by heating, ventilation or air-conditioning systems? Here is what the guidelines issued by the government says.
"The environment plays an important role in determining the survivability and spreadability of the virus. Coronavirus tend to grow more in low temperature and humidity," says Dr Rajesh Chawla
High temperatures and humidity can 'significantly' slow the spread of coronavirus, but won't completely stop it, study finds
"The study of the transmission of Covid-19 virus in 100 cities of China indicates that high temperature and high humidity significantly reduce the transmission of influenza.
Coronavirus can be passed between people in the kind of warm and ... 'High temperature and high relative humidity significantly reduce the ...
The COVID-19 outbreak is a global ... There are many myths about COVID-19 circulating through social media.... from the false idea that cold and hot temperatures can kill the virus
Coronavirus CAN spread in warm and humid conditions as scientists find a ... 'High temperature and high relative humidity significantly reduce the transmission of COVID-1, the study authors wrote. ... 
South Africa's relatively low death rate from Covid-19 is hard to explain. ... survival in high humidity and warmer temperatures, there is plenty of evidence, ...  
Can coronavirus (Covid-19) spread, or be controlled by heating, ... Covid-19 in 100 cities in China lower in high temperature and high humidity.
Coronavirus tend to grow more in low temperature and humidity," ... "When the weather is dry and hot, the spread of the virus will be under control. 
Previous research has suggested that coronavirus can't survive at 86 ... 'High temperature and high relative humidity significantly reduce the ...
While, a relative humidity level of 40 per cent to 70 per cent is ...  of Covid-19 virus in 100 cities of China indicates that high temperature and ...
These data suggest that ACE2 expression is increased in diabetes and treatment with ACE inhibitors and ARBs increases ACE2 expression. Consequently, the increased expression of ACE2 would facilitate infection with COVID-19.
Don't stop taking prescribed angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors or angiotensin-receptor blocker (ARB) medications for high blood pressure, heart failure or heart disease, the guidelines said.
Scientists say the research does not prove a link between the medications and severe COVID-19, but that a potential connection should be studied more closely.
Suggest that ACE2 expression is increased in diabetes and treatment with ACE inhibitors and ARBs increases ACE2 expression. Consequently, the increased expression of ACE2 would facilitate infection with COVID-19.
Speed is, of course, important when a crisis such as COVID-19 is at hand. But speed – in research, the interpretation and the implementation of science – is a risky endeavor.
What does COVID-19 stand for? Professor Fuat continues: “This speculation about the safety of ACE-i or ARB treatment in relation to coronavirus does not have a sound scientific basis or evidence to support it." 
The speculation that ACE-inhibitors or ARBs treatment can make infections worse in the context of COVID-19 is not supported by clinical evidence.
It said stopping the ACE inhibitor or ARB could actually put the user at greater risk of complications from the infection since it’s likely that the blood pressure will rise and heart problems would get worse.
This has the potential to become very ugly indeed and even worse ... treatment with ACE inhibitors and ARBs increases ACE2 expression. ... The only safe advice is to prevent the elderly from contracting Covid 19.
enzyme (ACE) inhibitors or angiotensin-receptor blocker (ARB) medications for ... Heart disease patients with Covid-19 should be evaluated by their ... Some over-the-counter (OTC) medicines and supplements can raise ... 
ACE inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers may lead to worse ... does not prove a link between the medications and severe COVID-19, but that ... and treatment with ACE inhibitors and ARBs increases ACE2 expression.
Ibuprofen exacerbates coronavirus disease ... diabetes, who are treated with ACE inhibitors and angiotensin II type-I receptor blockers (ARBs).
Speed is, of course, important when a crisis such as COVID-19 is at hand. ... raised concerns that ibuprofen use could worsen COVID-19 symptoms. ... 
Coronavirus named: What does COVID-19 stand for? ... speculation about the safety of ACE-i or ARB treatment in relation to coronavirus does not ... your medication could be dangerous and could make your condition worse.
The speculation that ACE-inhibitors or ARBs treatment can make infections worse in the context of COVID-19 is not supported by clinical ...
It said stopping the ACE inhibitor or ARB could actually put the user at ... it's likely that the blood pressure will rise and heart problems would get worse. ... 
A rush on hand sanitiser to protect against the coronavirus has seen homemade versions spring up, including one based on a handmade vodka.
Most public health agencies recommend using any type of hand sanitizer – homemade or otherwise – only when soap and water is not an option.
Recipes for homemade hand sanitizer concoctions have been multiplying online but experts are warning that many of the DIY solutions are ineffective — even harmful.
Protect yourself from coronavirus with DIY hand sanitizer, face masks. Both hand sanitzer and face masks are things that can be easily made at home.
With the announcement of the COVID-19 pandemic by the World Health Organization (WHO), experts around the world recommend frequent hand washing, social distancing, and respiratory hygiene to reduce the virus’ spread. 
According to sources people are making homemade sanitizer and Everclear vodka is one of the main ingredients.
Along with face masks and sanitizing wipes, alcohol-based sanitizing gel has been one of the most in-demand items as coronavirus fears have sparked panic buying that has left store shelves bare.
DIY: Homemade hand sanitizer can help protect against coronavirus. This could be used to make another 66% alcohol hand sanitizer with three parts vodka to one part aloe vera.
 ... to protect against the coronavirus has seen homemade versions spring up, ... "Per the CDC, hand sanitizer needs to contain at least 60% alcohol," Tito's ... 
B.C. confirms 2 more cases of U.K. COVID-19 variant ... agencies recommend using any type of hand sanitizer – homemade or ... Hand sanitizers can reduce the number of microbes ...
 Recipes for homemade hand sanitizer concoctions have been multiplying online ... using things like vodka and tea tree oil to make your own hand sanitizer. ... 
Protect yourself from coronavirus with DIY hand sanitizer, face masks ... Both hand sanitzer and face masks are things that can be easily made at ... Alcohol (90%), in the ..
With the announcement of the COVID-19 pandemic by the World Health ... Hand washing is one of the most effective ways a person can protect themselves and ... 
According to sources people are making homemade sanitizer and Everclear vodka is one ... jello shots, and also has been the vodka of choice because of it's high alcohol content. ... NBA Postpones Games Due To COVID-19.
Here's how to make it at home with vodka or rubbing alcohol ... has been one of the most in-demand items as coronavirus fears have sparked ...
DIY: Homemade hand sanitizer can help protect against coronavirus ... 66% alcohol hand sanitizer with three parts vodka to one part aloe vera.
“There is no supplement or herb that can prevent or cure coronavirus.” Some evidence has shown echinacea can provide support during a cold, but people must remember that COVID-19 is not the common cold, Majumdar emphasized.
With the outbreak of the COVID-19 coronavirus in the United States, and the uncertainty around it, Americans are looking for ways to improve their chances of not contracting the disease and to stay healthy during isolation.
It is also believed to help prevent viral infections by increasing the body’s temperature.
New cases of the coronavirus are reported every day, and as yet there’s no vaccine. Meanwhile, there’s no convincing evidence beyond the placebo effect for a range of other common treatments, such as vitamin C and echinacea.
Can herbal products be used to create an effective COVID-19 treatment? There is no scientific evidence that any of these alternative remedies can prevent or cure the illness caused by COVID-19.
Research indicates that underactivity of the immune system can result in severe infections and tumors of immunodeficiency, while overactivity results in allergic and autoimmune diseases.
Eating a balanced diet is not going to prevent you from getting COVID-19. But if you catch the virus, you want to have the strongest immune system possible to help fight it.
These are plants containing salicylic acid derivatives, such as willow, meadowsweet, birch, poplar, goldenrod, polygalas but also plants containing other plant anti-inflammatory drugs, such as harpagophytum, echinacea, turmeric, cat’s claw, plants of the genera Boswellia and Commiphora.
“There is no supplement or herb that can prevent or cure coronavirus,” ... Some evidence has shown echinacea can provide support during a ...
With the outbreak of the COVID-19 coronavirus in the United States, and the ... He shared recommendations for ways that Americans can attempt to raise their ...
It is also believed to help prevent viral infections by increasing the ... You can add ginger to your diet by making it into tea or simply
New cases of the coronavirus are reported every day, and as yet ... for a range of other common treatments, such a vitamin C and echinacea.
Can herbal products be used to create an effective COVID-19 treatment? ... any of these alternative remedies can prevent or cure the illness caused by COVID-19. ... 
Research indicates that underactivity of the immune system can result in severe ... effects increased when participants used echinacea to prevent the common cold.
COVID-19 Nutrition and Shopping Guide ... Eating a balanced diet is not going to prevent you from getting COVID-19. ... I'd look for blends of herbal remedies that include things like echinacea, astragalus and mushroom extracts.
... drugs, such as harpagophytum, echinacea, turmeric, cat's claw (also called ... In the context of the Coronavirus Covid-19 epidemic, food is of ...
